A threat is a possible danger that could exploit
a vulnerability despite controls to breach security and cause harm.
Let's break that down.
Let's say, for example,
I leave for work in the morning and locking
my front door is a security control that I use to keep bad things out.
But let's say I accidentally left my back window open.
Contrary to what most people believe,
the window being open is not a threat,
this is a vulnerability.
It's a gap in my home system.
But just because a window is open doesn't mean there's a breach just yet.
There would need to be someone or something
ready to take advantage of the window being open,
and in other words, exploits the gap in order to make this an issue.
That outcome of actions taken by the person or a thing whether it's
a burglar or a rogue snake that slithers through the window,
that is what is considered the threat.
Understanding threats is a subset of risk management.
This is important to call out because
successful threat assessment relies on risk management information.
For example, in the identifying phase of the risk management process,
you are not only identifying threats,
you are understanding what assets are present in the company.
During this process, some questions you might ask are,
what are the important processes?
What are the important data points?
All of this information will help you when you start aiming to identify threats.
For example, if through risk management you've identified that
your systems store data on majority of
the presidents and global leaders around the world.
When you start identifying threats,
you can take this into consideration.
Who might want this data? What could they use it for?
What bad things can happen if they got it?
Once you've identified the threats,
similar to what we discussed with the bees, snakes,
and jellyfish on the beach,
you take these various factors into consideration so that you
can start to prioritize and focus on what matters most.
This information then goes back and feeds the rest of the risk management process.